ADD userguide/managingApp/triggering-a-deployment (#6400)
pipe-cd/pipecd: docs/content/en/docs-v1.0.x/user-guide/managing-application/triggering-a-deployment.md

---
title: "Triggering a deployment"
linkTitle: "Triggering a deployment"
weight: 4
description: >
  This page describes when a deployment is triggered automatically and how to manually trigger a deployment.
---

PipeCD uses Git as a single source of truth; all application resources are defined declaratively and immutably in Git. Whenever a developer wants to update the application or infrastructure, they will send a pull request to that Git repository to propose the change. The state defined in Git is the desired state for the application and infrastructure running in the cluster.

PipeCD applies the proposed changes to running resources in the cluster by triggering needed deployments for applications. The deployment mission is syncing all running resources of the application in the cluster to the state specified in the newest commit in Git.

> By default, when a new merged pull request touches an application, a new deployment for that application will be triggered to execute the sync process. But users can configure the application to control when a new deployment should be triggered or not. For example, using [`onOutOfSync`](#trigger-configuration) to enable the ability to attempt to resolve `OUT_OF_SYNC` state whenever a configuration drift has been detected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, PipeCD triggers a new deployment when you merge a pull request.

You can customize this behavior in your application configuration file (app.pipecd.yaml) to control whether and when deployments run.

For example, you can use [`onOutOfSync`](#trigger-configuration) to automatically trigger a deployment whenever PipeCD detects a configuration drift and the application enters an OUT_OF_SYNC state.
```

> ### Trigger configuration

Reviewer: ### Trigger configuration
You can configure when PipeCD triggers a new deployment. The following trigger types are available:

- onCommit: Triggers a deployment when new Git commits affect the application.
- onCommand: Triggers a deployment when the application receives a SYNC command.
- onOutOfSync: Triggers a deployment when the application enters an OUT_OF_SYNC state.
- onChain: Triggers a deployment when the application is part of a deployment chain.

For the full list of options, see [Configuration Reference](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/configuration-reference/#deploymenttrigger).

### Trigger configuration

You can configure when PipeCD triggers a new deployment. The following trigger types are available:

- `onCommit`: Triggers a deployment when new Git commits affect the application.
- `onCommand`: Triggers a deployment when the application receives a SYNC command.
- `onOutOfSync`: Triggers a deployment when the application enters an OUT_OF_SYNC state.
- `onChain`: Triggers a deployment when the application is part of a deployment chain.

For the full list of options, see [Configuration Reference](../../configuration-reference/#deploymenttrigger).

After a deployment is triggered, it is added to a queue and handled by the appropriate `piped`. At this stage, the deployment pipeline is not yet decided.
`piped` ensures that only one deployment runs per application at a time. If no deployment is currently running, `piped` selects a queued deployment and plans its pipeline.
The deployment pipeline is created based on the application configuration and the differences between the current running state and the desired state defined in the latest commit.
For example:

> - when the merged pull request updated a Deployment's container image or updated a mounting ConfigMap or Secret, `piped` planner will decide that the deployment should use the specified pipeline to do a progressive deployment.

Reviewer: Need better readability here and uniform tense.

> - when the merged pull request just updated the `replicas` number, `piped` planner will decide to use a quick sync to scale the resources.

Reviewer: same as [here](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/6400/changes#r2664401599)

---
title: "Triggering a deployment"
linkTitle: "Triggering a deployment"
weight: 4
description: >
  This page describes when a deployment is triggered automatically and how to manually trigger a deployment.
---

PipeCD uses Git as a single source of truth; all application resources are defined declaratively and immutably in Git. Whenever a developer wants to update the application or infrastructure, they will have to open a pull request to that Git repository to propose the change. The state defined in Git is the desired state for the application and infrastructure running in the cluster.

PipeCD applies these changes by triggering deployments for affected applications. Each deployment synchronizes the running resources in the cluster to match the state defined in the latest Git commit.

By default, PipeCD triggers a new deployment when you merge a pull request.

> You can customize this behavior in your application configuration file (app.pipecd.yaml) to control whether and when deployments run.

Reviewer: Need a line break here
